---
title: Year-End Summary for 2023
authors: nova
date: 2021-12-14
tags: [summary]

---

Due to various considerations, I have hidden the two articles, "2023 Mid-Year Summary" and "2023 Mid-Year Summary - Continued".

Although it is only mid-December of 2023, I am about to start preparing for year-end exams and may not have much free time ahead, so please forgive me for this early summary haha.

My original plan was to develop a fancy sharing plugin to elegantly share long screenshots, but obviously, it has been put on hold.

<!--truncate-->

## TL;DR

2023 has been an extremely special year for me, marking the beginning of "building social connections with the world". Throughout this year, I have had many new and exciting experiences and done many things that are meaningful to me (even though I've also done many meaningless things haha). Regrettably, in terms of self-improvement, this year has not been as successful as I hoped. Therefore, if I were to evaluate it myself, this year was clearly not "fulfilling" but rather "meaningful." In the following sections, you will read about my year from different perspectives.


## Gaming

### Summary

Another year of electronic gaming, and I often wonder why I have such good equipment. I have tried various AAA games like Cyberpunk 2077, Elden Ring, Death Stranding, etc., but I have not managed to finish any of them (laughs). I found myself unable to immerse in single-player games. Even if the storyline is top-notch, I can't resist drowsiness and eventually forget to continue playing. It's a painful thing for someone who loves games (self-proclaimed) to not enjoy the ninth art form. Compared to previous years, I even lost interest in buying games. I used to say, "I spent money to buy games, and now I have to spend time playing them?" This excuse no longer works this year. I'm not sure if that's a good or bad thing.

As for mobile games, I have almost achieved top rankings in all of them, except for Arknights, which is barely surviving with Maintenance Assisted Auto-play (MAA). I no longer delve into the background of game characters or pay attention to the storyline. Genshin Impact became unappealing to me due to its high costs for each character. I tried Honkai Impact 3rd but didn't enjoy that game type, so I rated it as well. My gaming expenses have significantly decreased, and since I don't have to work anymore, I think it's quite nice.

In terms of online gaming, I sold my APEX account and bought my current laptop. I still play Mirage in CS every day with no improvement. I lost interest in Valorant. I also tried Swords of Legends Online, but it didn't give me the MMORPG feeling I had imagined (similar to when I played FF14). Maybe I just don't like these types of games.

### Expectations

I plan to "quit gaming" in 2024, specifically by reducing my time on CS2. Instead, I want to carve out some time to peacefully play AAA games. I recently purchased a PS5 controller (not sure why I didn't buy an Xbox controller; maybe I just find the PS5 controller more visually appealing, and the feedback vibrations are great).

I currently have no plans to buy a console. If I still desire to play games after renting my own place, I might consider it. I don't intend to upgrade any devices in the next year unless necessary. My current configuration and peripherals are sufficient to solve my problems perfectly.

I might consider getting a VR headset, possibly the Quest 3? The Vision Pro seems targeted at a different audience from me, but I would consider it if I were to come into some unexpected wealth.


## Lifestyle

### Summary

If possible, I would like to go back to middle school and give a slap to my younger self who lounged on a chair all day, urging them to exercise. That way, I wouldn't have to regret the lack of various hormones in the future (laughs).

For most of this year (the first 10 months), I had an avoidance attitude towards it. If I couldn't change it, I didn't want to need it. However, it seems that achieving cyber transcendence is not something that can be done in the short term. I am still unable to live in a virtual world like in "Ready Player One" or similar works. So, I am starting to think about improving these issues. But so far, most methods seem ineffective. I'm not sure if it's because I haven't given them enough time or if I just haven't figured it out yet.

I'll talk about travel separately below.


### Expectations

Overall, I plan to stick to my fitness routine. I've felt many positive effects from exercising, so I am unlikely to give up midway. However, as I am not a great absorber, the results may not be very noticeable, which might discourage me. I hope that won't happen.

I also want to engage in more social activities. I still feel somewhat introverted (though I have improved a lot). Participating in some activities can help expand my social circle, and it will also help me accumulate some work experience to prevent future problems with graduation.


## Travel

### Summary

I have traveled to many places this year: Nanjing, Chengdu, Lanzhou, Shanghai, Xinjiang, and even went abroad for the first time to Singapore.

Most of these trips were for competitions, so I may not have had the opportunity to explore these places fully, but I have experienced them to some extent.

:::info
This Content is generated by ChatGPT and might be wrong / incomplete, refer to Chinese version if you find something wrong.
:::

<!-- AI -->
